people are using multiple devices
they're also buying from your website or
becoming a lead by taking omnichannel
approach in which they may see you on
Facebook then they come back to your
site from Google and then they you know
opt-in for an email newsletter and then
they convert it through an email
newsletter what's causing that person to
convert and did they use multiple
different devices throughout that
Journey do they use the iPhone on one
and then their desktop computer on
another this is all making it hard to
figure out what's producing the best Roi
hello everyone our today's podcast is
going to be very informative for you all
so our today's guest is Neil Patel so my
first question which you will Wiki uh
can you share a little bit about your
journey in the world of digital
marketing and how you became one of the
most influential figures in the industry
sure I don't know if I'm one of the most
influential or even influential in the
industry but I'll give you a bit of
color on my background so I'm 38 years
old right now I started when I was
around 16 years old I created a job
board I was trying to find a job online
I couldn't find a good paying job so I
created a job board uh wasn't logical it
was just what I did and I paid some
people to help me create the job board I
spent like a thousand or so dollars
and once it was done I was getting
little to no traffic
and it hit me that I got to do something
called marketing you know I was really
naive uh being young I should have known
better but I didn't
I saved up more money working at
amusement park picking up trash cleaning
restrooms use that money to pay for
marketing help and I got little to no
results so from being broke and
frustrated I had no option but to learn
it on my own I got good at it started
driving traffic to my job board and
guess what I was still making no money I
was good at the marketing side wasn't
good at figuring out how to make money
so then at that point I transitioned
into just helping other people with
their marketing and I would cold call
out pick up the phone
you know and call everyone who's
spending money on ads and try to
convince them to use my services to help
them drive more traffic some people
signed up some people didn't
it overall worked out quite well it was
a numbers game
and over time I kept blogging and
speaking at events and you know doing
podcast interviews like this and it's
all helped build up the brand over the
years
okay okay
um your journey is really inspiring for
all of us and uh
so um I want to ask you uh key as a
successful marketer and entrepreneur
what key principles or strategies uh
have consistently contributed uh to your
own growth and the success of the
business you have worked with
Omni Channel marketing has always been
huge in marketing they say there's
something called the rule of seven when
someone sees or interacts with your
brand seven times they're much more
likely to evangelize to remember it
potentially become a customer
it's really hard for someone to just see
your brand multiple times from SEO or
just paid Google ads or paid Facebook
ads you got to do everything from Google
SEO to or SEO whether it's Google being
or any other platform to
you know paid ads on the search
platforms to organic social on Facebook
LinkedIn Twitter Instagram Tick Tock I
know it's not uh allowed in India though
to even email marketing and converting
optimization and doing podcasting and
interviews and blogging all this kind of
stuff it's a combination of everything
that's really helped the second thing
that a lot of people take for granted in
marketing is how do you do something
that stands out
all marketing channels eventually get
crowded and they don't perform as well
over time as they once did when they
first came out
and the reason for that is they just get
competitive because they're producing
results
but how do you do something that makes
you stand out so for example back in the
day when a lot of people are charging
for ebooks I would give a lot of
extremely detailed and valuable content
for free
or on the flip side when people are
charging for tools I release a lot of
them for free which help build up the
brand and generate more traffic as well
great
so uh now one more thing the um your
blog attracts millions of monthly
visitors and your podcasting
significantly listeners so what advice
would you give to aspiring content
creators and marketers who are just
starting into this space looking to
build a strong online presence and
engage Their audience
few things number one you gotta write
about topics that people care about so
you can use tools like answer the public
or Uber says to see what's popular or
how or trending like answer the public
will take Google data from Google
suggests to show you what's hot and is
starting to Trend and if you create
content around those subjects you're
more likely to get views from what we've
tested and seen and experienced
the second thing is if you're getting
started is you can't just rely on your
following you gotta collaborate with
other people so you can do lives on
Instagram with other people in your
space and you guys can both build up
your following at the same time
the other thing that you need to do is
you need to be consistent you'll find
that if you're trying to build up your
following and brand it's not going to be
overnight you're not going to get the
results in a year or two it takes three
to five years to really see the results
and the last thing I would mention that
a lot of people forget about is you
can't forget about the in-person
interaction this is great what we're
experiencing here but what's better than
this is being in person meeting each
other being face to face you you can't
put a price point on that it's
invaluable and a lot of people forget to
do that when they're trying to build up
their brand or Market their business
so one more thing
um
uh with the ever evolving digital land
space or what emerging trains or
technology do you believe uh will have a
significant significant impact on
marketing in the near future and how can
business leverage them to stay ahead
so the obvious one is AI everyone's
talking about AI uh from a Content
creation standpoint from an image
creation standpoint I do think AI is
going to have a massive impact on
marketing for those things that I
already has I think it'll have a much
bigger impact call it a year or two or
even three four years from now when it
comes to content and creation
the big thing that we see in AI the real
value that a lot of people aren't
talking about is Analytics
so we're moving towards a Cookie list
world and
people are using multiple devices
they're also buying uh from your website
or becoming a lead uh by taking
omnichannel approach in which they may
see you on Facebook then they come back
to your site from Google and then they
you know opt in for an email newsletter
and then they convert it through an
email newsletter
so what's causing that person to convert
and did they use multiple different
devices throughout that Journey do they
use the iPhone on one and then their
desktop computer on another this is all
making it hard to figure out what's
producing the best Roi especially when
you're running marking campaigns summer
organic some are paid but they still
take time time costs money
you can use you could take all your data
from different sources dump it into one
place let's say Google data Studio or
Tableau and you can start using AI to
help analyze your analytics data in real
time because most people when I go to
conferences like I was just at a
conference called adcon in London and I
asked the audience how many of you guys
log into your analytics uh on a daily
basis and are actually making changes
based on that and very few people raised
their hand I'm not even talking about
five percent much less than that
AI can help analyze your analytics in
real time and get you more insightful
information but the bigger thing is it
can help you save money much quicker
people spend so much money on paid ads
over 100 billion dollars being spent a
year just on Google ads and Facebook ads
is quite large as well so you start
looking at those dollar amounts and if
you can just go with the approach of
hey we're going to
analyze your analytics in real time
figure out where the wastage is and
figure out where to reallocate companies
are getting a much higher Roi I think
that's the big aspect of AI that can
really help companies because content
creation isn't that expensive in the
first place
um and the AI content creation at least
in the short run isn't that amazing
compared to what you can do for manual
efforts but the analytics portion should
save companies much more money and make
them much more money in my perspective
than the content generation because the
content generation you can already get
done for cheap yes AI is great and it's
game changing from that aspect where it
helps you create content faster and more
of it but it wasn't hard to do that
before anyways
um Circle so as we are talking about
analytics so uh while researching uh I
got to note that the measurement
analytics player major role in marketing
subset so how do you approach tracking
and analyzing marketing campaigns uh of
you and what key metrics do you
recommend for businesses so focus on
their access for their performance
so with analytics you you track your
goals and your conversions you can use
any platforms whether it's you know cool
day Studio Google analytics tab or
whatever you want to use
um but let's say using Google analytics
you're tracking your goals in your
conversion you're looking at what
channels are driving the results whether
you're looking at first touch last touch
uh you're doing attribution to all
touches it's up to you on how you want
to slice and dice the data and you can
do multiple variations of it to figure
out what works for you
but what we find is
you know for each business is going to
vary so for our business at our Ad
Agency NP digital and we have offices
all around the world including in India
where we help companies in India like
Tata uh you know grow their traffic
um and sales
when you think about it like for us our
sales cycle is longer so our metrics are
going to be very different than an
e-commerce site where you can get
transactions right when someone sees
your product so the metrics that a
business has to track is dependent on
what's the most valuable to them
um okay okay got it awesome so one more
thing um I have in my mind key or you
have the opportunities to work with
major companies and brand as you
mentioned like Google Microsoft wherever
like different content plan so produce
here in particularly challenging
marketing project or campaign you are
involved in and how you overcome
obstacle to achieve success
most marketing campaigns are hard when
people come to us they're not coming to
us with an easy solution like with CNN
Brazil uh
uh we drove a billion I think a page
views and additional page views in 12
months or 11 months it was somewhere
around that time frame through organic
it was it was a really hard Milestone to
achieve but we were able to achieve it
there is no easy marketing campaign that
we work on in most cases some may be but
majority of the big companies that are
coming to us are coming with hard
problems
and the way you overcome it is you break
it all down on all right what is the
goal what do you need to do to hit that
goal within that time frame let's say a
year what do you need to accomplish each
month to make sure you hit it and that
your time frame and then you break it
down what do I need to hit each week to
accomplish the tasks in that month what
I need to accomplish on a daily basis to
hit the task that I need to complete
each week so then that way I can hit the
goal on an annual basis and then what
are the people I need and you need to go
get the amazing people and make sure
you're executing on each of those things
a lot of these things aren't rocket
science it typically involves
brainstorming and creativity and amazing
people to help with the execution those
are the two main aspects of most of the
marketing campaigns when it comes to
these challenges
um that's that's so awesome to know
um okay uh one more thing
if someone is a beginner and wants to
rank his blogs on Google when I
announced on Dignity I am going to
need so a lot of people ask me a
question he asked with you like how to
rank a Blog on Google
some of the key advice that will work
effectively effectively from your side
so everyone's using chat GPT to create
content and Bard now and any of the AI
tools like we have an AI writer
ubersuggest but the first thing you need
is you need your content to stand out
Google talks about double eat experience
expertise Authority and Trust if you can
include that in your content you're
going to be better off so include that
the second real thing that you need is
you need to keep updating your content
Wikipedia ranks for a lot of stuff on
Google these days and they have for ages
and the main reason being is they don't
just publish content they continually
update it whenever you do a Google
search why would you want to see a
result that's three years old you want
to see a result that's one week old and
gives you the most relevant information
so update your content that's the second
thing the third thing is you need links
the best way to build links is not
actually through content we found the
best way to build links is give away
free tools so those are the three ways
and if you can't build a free tool think
about what people are paying for and
build a free version of that and give it
away but if you can't
if you don't have the time and energy to
build a free tool or the money you can
use tools like chat or you can use chat
GPT to help you create a tool when chat
GPT was asked to create the game pong it
was able to do it in 60 seconds the
point I'm getting at is you can use a
lot of the AI out there to help you
create a tool you may still need to pay
developer to help you get that last Mile
and finish the little things that are
left over but that's okay you can get it
done really affordably now